


Network Working Group                                         J. Holsten
Internet-Draft
Intended status: Standards Track                                 L. Hunt
Expires: May 5, 2011                                Opera Software, ASA.
                                                          M. Yevstifeyev
                                                           November 2010


                         The 'about' URI scheme
                   draft-holsten-about-uri-scheme-07

Abstract

   This document specifies the "about" URI scheme, that may be used by
   the applications for almost any desired purpose, such as providing
   access to application information, settings, preferences, etc.  This
   URI scheme has been used by many web browsers for quite a long time
   informally, i. e. without being documented; this document is to
   remove such uncertainty and give this scheme an official
   specification.

Editorial Note (To be removed by RFC Editor)

   Discussion of this draft should take place on the URI Review mailing
   list (uri-review@ietf.org).

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on May 5, 2011.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2010 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.




Holsten, et al.            Expires May 5, 2011                  [Page 1]

Internet-Draft           The 'about' URI scheme            November 2010


   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.

1.  Introduction

   This document specifies the "about" URI scheme, that may be used by
   the applications for almost any desired purpose, such as providing
   access to application information, settings, preferences, and even so
   called "Easter eggs" (i. e. intentional hidden message, in-joke or
   feature in the application; see [EASTER-EGGS]).  It does not put any
   limit on the type of the information, it designates the access to.

   While any number of existing schemes could be used to identify such
   resources, "about" URI has become the de facto standard.  The "about"
   URI scheme has been used by many applications for quite a long time
   informally.  They include such well-known browsers as Microsoft
   Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari as well as less popular
   Google Chrome, Konqueror and many others.  However during this time
   the "about" URI scheme have not been given any specification, either
   published as RFC or in any other way.  This document is to remove
   such uncertainty and give this scheme an official specification and
   registration.  It also established the IANA registry for "about" URIs
   segment tokens.

2.  Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119].

3.  URI Syntax

   The general syntax of an "about" URI takes the form of "abouturi"
   rule below, that is defined using ABNF [RFC5234]:

       abouturi = "about:" segment [ "?" query ]

   where "segment" and "query" are defined in [RFC3986].






Holsten, et al.            Expires May 5, 2011                  [Page 2]

Internet-Draft           The 'about' URI scheme            November 2010


4.  Encoding Considerations

   Because many characters are not permitted with the syntax, described
   above, the "segment" and "query" elements MAY contain characters from
   the Unicode Character Set [UCS] as suggested by URI [RFC3986], by
   first encoding those characters as octets to the UTF-8 character
   encoding [RFC3629]; those octets that correspond to characters in the
   unreserved set [RFC3986] SHOULD be percent-encoded.

   By using UTF-8 encoding, there are no known compatibility issues with
   mapping Internationalized Resource Identifiers to "about" URIs
   according to [RFC3987].  Since "about" URIs do not use domain names,
   "ireg-name" conversion is unnecessary.

5.  Resolving "about" URIs

   All "about" URIs are categorised in three ways:

   Reservation  A reserved "about" URI is one that is claimed and
      defined by a specification for use in a specific context.

   Resolution  Reserved "about" URIs MAY be defined as resolvable,
      meaning that they resolve to a defined resource, even outside of
      their defined usage context.

   Recognition  This relates to whether or not a given application
      recognises a given URI and knows how to resolve it to a particular
      resource.

   The division of "about" URIs into the reservation and resolution
   categories is per-fact while the recognition per-application.
   Therefore, while an "about" URI may be classified as, for example,
   reserved and resolvable, it may be not be recognized by all
   applications.

5.1.  Reservation

   A reserved "about" URI is one that is claimed and defined by a
   specification for use in a specific context.  A reserved "about" URI
   MUST be defined as either resolvable or unresolvable.

   An unreserved "about" URI is any other "about" URI that is not
   defined by a specification for use in a specific context, but which
   MAY be recognized by an application.







Holsten, et al.            Expires May 5, 2011                  [Page 3]

Internet-Draft           The 'about' URI scheme            November 2010


5.1.1.  about:blank

   The "about" URI with the segment equal to "blank" and no query
   component is reserved by this specification as resolvable. i.e.
   "about:blank".  Applications resolving the URI "about:blank" MUST
   return a resource of zero length, containing no data, with the media
   type "text/html" and the character encoding "UTF-8".

   Note: If a query component is provided with "about:blank", such as
   "about:blank?" or "about:blank?foo", then the URI is not considered
   to be reserved by this specification.

5.2.  Resolution

   A reserved "about" URI defined as resolvable means that a conforming
   implementation must resolve the given URI as defined in any context.

   For example, if a web browser recognises a reserved and resolvable
   URI, and a user enters that URI into the address bar, the web browser
   would resolve the URI and return the resource to the user, as defined
   by the specification that reserved it.

   A reserved "about" URI defined as unresolveable means that there is
   no defined resolution process for the URI that applies outside of the
   specific context for which it is reserved.  An implementation MAY
   attempt to resolve the URI in an implementation-specific manner.

   For example, the about:legacy-compat URI that is reserved by HTML
   [HTML] for use in a legacy-parser compatible HTML DOCTYPE is defined
   as unresolveable.  If a user enters it into the address bar of their
   browser, the browser MAY return any implementation-specific resource.

5.3.  Recognition

   A recognised "about" URI is an "about" URI that recognized by an
   application.  Applications that recognise reserved and resolvable
   URIs MUST use the defined resolution process.  Applications that
   recognise unreserved or unresolvable URIs MAY resolve the URI in an
   implementation-specific manner.

   Applications MAY recognise and resolve any unreserved "about" URI, or
   any reserved but unresolvable "about" URI used outside of its defined
   context, to any resource, either internal or external, or redirect to
   an alternative URI.

   An unrecognized "about" URI is an "about" URI that is not recognized
   by an application.  Applications SHOULD resolve unrecognized "about"
   URIs in the same way as "about:blank".



Holsten, et al.            Expires May 5, 2011                  [Page 4]

Internet-Draft           The 'about' URI scheme            November 2010


   Note: As "about" URIs are designed to be internal to each
   application, there is no expectation of any unreserved or
   unresolvable URI returning the same resource among different
   applications.  However, it is worth noting that some conventions have
   arisen for providing particular functionality via common "about"
   URIs.

   Historical note: Early versions of Netscape and Microsoft Internet
   Explorer resolved unreserved "about" URIs in the following way: they
   just displayed the text after "about:", treating it as HTML document.
   However currently these applications refused such behavior.

5.4.  Examples

   The following examples illustrate some known URIs supported by
   existing applications.  They are not guaranteed to be resolvable by
   every application.

   about:config  Commonly provides access to application preferences and
      settings

   about:cache  Commonly provides access to information about resources
      stored in the browsers cache.  Current Mozilla Firefox
      implementations also accept a query string to specify a specific
      device to show more information about. e.g. about:
      cache?device=offline provides details about the offline cache.

   about:plugins  Commonly provides access to information about
      installed plugins

   about:mozilla  An easter egg supported by Mozilla showing a passage
      from the fictional Book of Mozilla [MOZILLA-BOOK]

   Applications are also permitted to redirect such URIs.  For example,
   Opera redirects all "about" URIs, with the exception of
   "about:blank", to the equivalent URI using their internal "opera:"
   scheme. e.g. "about:config" redirects to "opera:config".

   This is not an exhaustive list.  Many more are supported by numerous
   applications.  For more examples, consult Wikipedia's entry on the
   "about: URI Scheme" [WIKIABOUT].

6.  Normalization

   "about" URIs use the standard URI normalization rules [RFC3986],
   specifically Simple String Comparison, Case Normalization, and
   Percent-Encoding Normalization.  For example, "about:blank",
   "about:blan%6B" and "about:blan%6b" are equivalent, though the



Holsten, et al.            Expires May 5, 2011                  [Page 5]

Internet-Draft           The 'about' URI scheme            November 2010


   percent-encoded forms are discouraged.

   Note that these normalization rules apply only to the case of
   application built-in resolution of 'about' URIs, i.e. "about:blan%6B"
   and "about:blank" SHALL be resolved in the same way.  Other cases of
   these URIs usage would require other normalization rules.

7.  Security Considerations

   "about" URIs might identify resources that reveal sensitive
   information.  Applications SHOULD ensure appropriate restrictions are
   in place to protect such information from access or modification by
   untrusted sources.

   Implementations SHOULD also take note of the security considerations
   described by [RFC3986].  In particular, the following issues SHOULD
   be considered:

   Reliability and Consistency:  Implementations are responsible for the
      reliability and consistency of the resources returned.  However,
      implementations SHOULD take care with "about" URIs that might
      redirect to, or otherwise return a resource that might
      subsequently access, remote resources, which might not be reliable
      or consistent.

   Malicious Construction:  Implementations SHOULD take care to prevent
      the construction of "about" URIs that might inadvertently perform
      damaging local or remote operations, such as the modification of
      data, or leaking of data to untrusted resources.  For example,
      incorporating unsanitised data provided by the user via the query
      string into the resulting page could allow attackers to inject
      scripts into pages, similar to a cross-site scripting (XSS)
      attack.

   Sensitive Information:  Implementations SHOULD avoid including
      sensitive information, such as passwords, within "about" URIs.

   The security considerations for Rare IP Address Formats and Semantic
   Attacks, as discussed by [RFC3986] do not apply to about URIs, as
   they do not contain either IP addresses nor userinfo components.

8.  IANA Considerations

   This specification requests the IANA provisionally register the
   "about" URI scheme as specified in this document and summarized in
   the following template, per [RFC4395]:





Holsten, et al.            Expires May 5, 2011                  [Page 6]

Internet-Draft           The 'about' URI scheme            November 2010


   URI scheme name:  about

   Status:  Permanent

   URI scheme syntax:  See RFCXXXX, Section 3

   URI scheme semantics:  See RFCXXXX, Section 1

   Encoding considerations:  Percent-encoding is allowed in "segment"
      and "query" components.  Internationalization is handled by IRI
      processing.  See Section 4.

   Intended usage:  An "about" URI is designed to be used internally by
      applications for almost any desired purpose.  See RFCXXXX,
      Section 1

   Applications and/or protocols that use this URI scheme name:  Any
      applications that use URIs as identifiers for private resources,
      such as web browsers.

   Interoperability considerations:  Applications are only REQUIRED to
      support "about:blank", and MAY choose to interpret other "about"
      URIs differently.

   Security considerations:  Applications SHOULD ensure appropriate
      restrictions are in place to protect sensitive information that
      might be revealed by "about" URIs from access or modification by
      untrusted sources.  See RFCXXXX, Section 7.

   Relevant publications:  RFCXXXX

   Contact:  Joseph Holsten (joseph@josephholsten.com)

   Author/Change controller:  W3C

9.  Acknowledgements

   This document was made possible thanks to the input of Henri Sivonen,
   Ian Hickson, Larry Masinter, Bjoern Hoehrmann, Martin Durst and
   Julian Reschke.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]       Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
                   Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.




Holsten, et al.            Expires May 5, 2011                  [Page 7]

Internet-Draft           The 'about' URI scheme            November 2010


   [RFC3629]       Yergeau, F., "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO
                   10646", STD 63, RFC 3629, November 2003.

   [RFC3986]       Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter,
                   "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax",
                   STD 66, RFC 3986, January 2005.

   [RFC3987]       Duerst, M. and M. Suignard, "Internationalized
                   Resource Identifiers (IRIs)", RFC 3987, January 2005.

   [RFC5234]       Crocker, D. and P. Overell, "Augmented BNF for Syntax
                   Specifications: ABNF", STD 68, RFC 5234,
                   January 2008.

   [UCS]           International Organization for Standardization,
                   "Information Technology - Universal Multiple-Octet
                   Coded Character Set (UCS)", ISO/IEC Standard 10646,
                   December 2003.

10.2.  Informative References

   [EASTER-EGGS]   Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia, "Easter egg
                   (media)", April 2011.

   [HTML]          W3C, "HTML5", April 2011.

   [MOZILLA-BOOK]  Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia, "The Book of
                   Mozilla", March 2011.

   [RFC4395]       Hansen, T., Hardie, T., and L. Masinter, "Guidelines
                   and Registration Procedures for New URI Schemes",
                   BCP 35, RFC 4395, February 2006.

   [WIKIABOUT]     Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia, "About: URI
                   scheme", April 2011.

Authors' Addresses

   Joseph Anthony Pasquale Holsten

   EMail: joseph@josephholsten.com
   URI:   http://josephholsten.com









Holsten, et al.            Expires May 5, 2011                  [Page 8]

Internet-Draft           The 'about' URI scheme            November 2010


   Lachlan Hunt
   Opera Software, ASA.

   EMail: lachlan.hunt@lachy.id.au
   URI:   http://lachy.id.au/


   Mykyta Yevstifeyev

   EMail: evnikita2@gmail.com









































Holsten, et al.            Expires May 5, 2011                  [Page 9]

