

Network Working Group                                            L. Hunt
Internet-Draft                                      Opera Software, ASA.
Expires: July 29, 2008                                  January 26, 2008


                         The "about" URI Scheme
                        draft-lachy-about-uri-00

Status of this Memo

   By submitting this Internet-Draft, each author represents that any
   applicable patent or other IPR claims of which he or she is aware
   have been or will be disclosed, and any of which he or she becomes
   aware will be disclosed, in accordance with Section 6 of BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

   This Internet-Draft will expire on July 29, 2008.

Abstract

   This document describes the "about" Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)
   scheme.  About URIs are designed to be an internal, application-level
   identifier.  Unlike many other URI schemes, the resolution of, and
   resources represented by, about URIs is left entirely to each
   individual application.


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Syntax
   3.  Resolving About URIs
     3.1.  about:blank
     3.2.  Examples
   4.  Security Considerations
   Author's Address
   Intellectual Property and Copyright Statements


1.  Introduction

   An about URI is designed to be used internally by applications for
   almost any desired purpose.  Such URIs have commonly been used by web
   browsers for proving access to built-in functionality, such as
   application preferences and settings, information about the
   application, or "easter eggs".


2.  Syntax

      abouturl := "about:" *urlchar

   Where "urlchar" is imported from [RFC2396]


3.  Resolving About URIs

   In general, applications are free to resolve any about URI to any
   resource, either internal or external, or redirect to an alternative
   URI, with about:blank (Section 3.1) being the only exception.

   As about URIs are designed to be internal to each application, there
   is no expectation of any URI, except about:blank, returning the same
   resource among different applications.  However, it is worth noting
   that some conventions have arisen for providing particular
   functionality via common about URIs.

   The about:blank URI is the only about URI reserved by this
   specification.

3.1.  about:blank

   Applications resolving this URI must return an empty resource,
   containing nothing.

3.2.  Examples

   The following examples illustrate some known URIs supported by
   existing applications.

   about:config  Commonly provides access to application preferences and
      settings

   about:cache  Commonly provides access to information about resources
      stored in the browsers cache.

   about:plugins  Commonly provides access to information about
      installed plugins

   about:mozilla  An easter egg supported by Mozilla showing a passage
      from the fictional Book of Mozilla

   about:internets  An easter egg supported by Google Chrome depicting
      the internet as a series of tubes.




4.  Security Considerations

   [insert information about Origin]


Author's Address

   Lachlan Hunt
   Opera Software, ASA.

   Email: lachlan.hunt@lachy.id.au
   URI:   http://lachy.id.au/


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2008).

   This document is subject to the rights, licenses and restrictions
   contained in BCP 78, and except as set forth therein, the authors
   retain all their rights.

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
   OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY, THE IETF TRUST AND
   THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS
   OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF
   THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


Intellectual Property

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in
   this document or the extent to which any license under such rights
   might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has
   made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information
   on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be
   found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of
   such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
   http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at
   ietf-ipr@ietf.org.



